534(P)/2007 ENGLAND - Thames Estuary - Sunk - Precautionary areas. Traffic
separation schemes. Recommended route. Two-way route. Area to be avoided.
Buoyage. Radio reporting points. Vessel traffic service. Automatic Identification 
System. Light-vessel.

Source: International Maritime Organization
(SEP: 2006000407152 - 1).

1. To improve the safety of navigation in the Northern Approaches to the Thames
Estuary, the International Maritime Organization have approved the modification
and extension of the existing Sunk Precautionary Area and the establishment of
three TSSs, a two-way traffic route at Long Sand Head, an area to be avoided and
a recommended route at the Galloper. These changes will be implemented at 0000
UTC 1 July 2007.

2. The existing Sunk Precautionary Area will be extended to form two parts; the
Sunk Inner Precautionary Area and the Sunk Outer Precautionary Area. Three TSSs
will lead traffic into and out of the Outer Area. Traffic within the Outer Area
will flow in a counter-clockwise direction around an area to be avoided, one
nautical mile in diameter, centred on a light-vessel in position 51° 50´·10N.,
1° 46´·02E. The light-vessel will be fitted with an Automatic Identification
System.

3. A two-way route is to be created from Kentish Knock Buoy (51° 38´·09N.,
1° 40´·43E.) to Long Sand Head Buoy (51° 47´·91N., 1° 39´·43E.). This route can
be used by vessels entering or leaving Medway/ Thames ports which meet certain
pilotage requirements. It can also be used by any vessel of less than 20 metres
in length, any sailing vessel or any vessel engaged in fishing irrespective of
their port of origin/ destination. A recommended route is also to be created in
the Galloper area to take regular ferry traffic into or out of the Sunk Outer
Precautionary Area.

4. These changes are shown on the accompanying diagram.

5. In addition, the Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) rules for the area are to be
revised and extended and buoyage is to be amended and repositioned.